# FGDOS_Analysis
Code and files to test, process and analyse floating gate dosimeters. Test files included

## Folders
### 02F_files
Includes the testing files used for the FGD-02F sensor.

### CSV_files (OLD)
CSV files from test runs before the radiation tests. These were not analysied into detail and only serve as a backup of sensor output before the radiation tests.

### CSV_files
The CSV files that store the output of the radiation sensor (Arduino subfolder) and the current sensors (SAM subfolder). In these subfolders the files are sorted in mre subfolders depending on when and how they were retrieved. In these subfolders are then the original CSV files. For example, if you want to retrieve the dosimeter data for an radiation experiment on the 16th of December: go to CSV_files -> Arduino -> HollandPTC_1216 -> select CSV file with the appropriate test name and time stamp. Note that also a subfolder 'corrected' can be found, in which the CSV files are stored that have been modified as to separate sensor data, eliminate invalid entries and prepare them for data analysis. These 'corrected' files are generated by a Python script discussed later.

### Figures
Where the plots of the data analysis are stored. Generated using Python scripts.

### venv
Virtual environment folder for the Python scripts.

## Files
Notes: 
- For most of the files you can set a folder and/or a filename. The folder names tell the scripts where to find/store data and the filename tells the scripts which files to use. Make sure this is set to your specific requirements.
- Setup: 2 radiation sensors connected to an Arduino. 2 INA219 current sensors connected to a SAMV71 board.

### FGD_03F_analysis
Run this file to analyse specific CSV files in the 'corrected' subfolder discussed above. You can set flags on and off to determine which files you want to analyse. The flags are grouped in: HollandPTC_1216 for the tests on the 16th of December, HollandPTC_2402 for the tests on the 24th of February, Noise for the noise tests. The functions that are used to analyse the files are stored in FGD_O3F_file_analysis_functions.

### FGD_03F_file_analysis_functions
This file contains a function for each radiation, noise, ... test run. Each function reads 2 CSV files (one for each sensor) from a folder (normally the 'corrected' subfolder, see above) and stores the data in Pandas dataframes. The data is then analysed and plotted as needed. It includes data analysis functions for tests on both 16 Dec and 24 Feb.

### FGD_03F_functions
General own defined functions that are used throughout the other scripts: statistical analysis, plotting, distributions, reading and modifying of CSV files, ...

### FGD_03F_noise_analysis_functions
Similar to FGD_03F_file_analysis_functions but then for the noise tests.

### FGD_03F_plotting
Script that goes over all the files in the 'corrected' subfolder and plots them all at once. This is handy for a quick overview, but cannot be used for detailed analysis of each test run.

### FGD_03F_processing
Script that reads the CSV files stored during the tests, deletes invalid entries, splits data of both dosimeters and stores the data in separate CSV files in a 'corrected' subfolder.

### FGD_03F_putty_processing
Script to process data that was retrieved using Putty and not the Python script. Not finished and should not be needed anymore

### FGD_03F_read_save_simple
Script that connects to the Arduino and starts collecting any Serial output it receives from the Arduino. Adds timestamps and stores the data into CSV files in a specified folder. The program also reads data input from the PC and sends it to the Arduino (if you press enter fast enough), this makes it possible to command the Arduino in real time.

### SAM_functions
General functions used for the SAM scripts.

### SAM_plotting
Goes over all the data files in a 'corrected' subfolder (this time part of the SAM folder, and not the Arduino folder!) and plots the data. Handy to get a general overview

### SAM_processing
Read the CSV files stored during the experiments, modifies them as discussed before for the Arduino and stores the corrected files in a 'corrected' subfolder.

### SAM_read_save
Connects to the SAM board and starts reading Serial output. Adds timestamps and stores the data in a CSV file.